The best records that I know of, we have of how we got to where we are, is by writing.
Not necessarily in books, but writing.
And the history of all that has been accomplished, really, is what we have learned by deciphering or reading or studying skeletons, etc., but
Certainly, the written record has been exceptionally important.
I'm interested in the phenomenon of saving writings.
Obviously, I don't have many important writings from the age of a cuneiform.
I just have one tablet, so when my students come, I should show them a clay tablet that was written 3,500 years ago.
I have one piece of Egyptian ... It's an interesting piece of one of their scrolls of papyrus.
It's also very old.
I never thought anybody could read it, including several Egyptian students that I've had.
So that's a little before our time.
And a few manuscripts, one time or another.
Mostly, I guess, all I've got are the books that have been important in the development of medicine.
From that time to this, that I've been able to find and enjoy looking at, studying how they were made and where they've been, if possible.
and learning what it was that they gave to us in the formation of the practice of medicine, if you like.
The science, the art, the problems.
Did you start collecting prior to becoming a physician?
No.
Prior to becoming a physician,
I was a medical student, and once I was a physician, I was doing research.
And there, of course, was involved with reading records of other investigators who had worked in the same field, which is, in part, learning the history of my special function of the intestinal tract.
So that, you know, you start looking at that, and then you develop into looking at other things as well.
I wonder what brought you to the collecting of the book.
Well, that had nothing to do with any reality.
A local book dealer gave a talk to our library association, and he had for sale a copy of The Sages, which was the first modern anatomy book.
That was published in 1542.
But prior to that time, anatomy was really gross.
It was impossible to be useful.
It so happened that he had an artist who obviously studied his dissections with him, and who was able to draw the anatomy of the human being.
that is as good as any modern.
Really?
Well, not in polar details, but yes.
He had woodblocks prepared, and published this.
Now, there were several contemporary anatomists, one of whom, you might just jot that this down as a site.
Eustachius was a
Italian physician who actually had prepared wood blocks.
Not wood blocks.
I think it was engraving steel or copper.
And he had done dissections, and he had learned a good bit of anatomy.
And he had been to see the pope who was sick, and on his way back home he died, whatever it was the pope had, and nobody ever saw.
The illustrations that he made, except a few of the kidney, but the gross anatomy was published in 1714, I think it was.
So Eustachius, though he was a good anatomist, and really had done a hell of a good job, he was unfortunately not working on it.
There was one other, I think it was a Frenchman.
But he also would have published before Mercedes, except he was working with another doctor and had an argument.
The other doctor sued him, and the court would not let him publish.
So the book that should have come out in 1539 didn't come out till 1546 after Mercedes.
So, you know, that's one of those very funny stories.
It should be.
Is there a bibliography in your specialty?
You pretty much have had to develop your own.
Oh, God, yes.
Oh, I mean, in internal medicine.
This is your... Oh, it's bibliography.
In every field of medicine.
Yeah.
But, I mean, even in the old books, under the classic books, yeah.
Here, for instance, is a...
A book that lists.
And may I?
You'd have to know what you're looking for, but, you know, there are many lists.
Tell me a little bit about how long have you been practicing medicine, Doctor?
I graduated from medical school in 1937, Philadelphia, interned in Los Angeles County General Hospital for two years.
Went back to Penn and Jefferson, did research, did graduate work, and was teaching.
All mixed up until 1942, and some kind of thing broke out in Europe.
I felt that I had to do something with it.
And we had our oldest son.
Everything was fine.
So I told my wife, and I said, look, we've got to do whatever we can.
So I got in the Army.
And are you a Californian?
Well, I was a Philadelphian until 1960, and then became a Californian and moved here.
Oh, so you've been here 30 years.
Well, you were collecting books then before you came here?
Not really.
Well, I was collecting titles and information, but not actual books.
And my first book was this, Vesalius.
The Vesalius, you got out here in California.
Yeah.
I was just wondering at what point you decided to become a collector.
It's hard to say.
I went to see the Vesalius.
And I felt a great kinship.
And next thing you know, I bought the goddamn thing.
And from then on, I guess I was a collector.
This is at a local bookstore, Dawson's, if and so on.
Well, we'd like that, except we'd deal with it.
And you look like you have some extraordinary, are all the books illustrative books, basically?
No, no.
And so your focus has been to try to document the history of your profession, I guess, in a phrase.
That's right.
And how thoroughly would you say you've been able to do it?
I think reasonably well.
Do you feel that, you know, there's this illness they call biblio-mania?
I approach it at times.
I think you'll have difficulty in
separating me from the bibliomaniacs.
But... Being a professional diagnostician, could you tell me a little bit about what are the symptoms of this disease?
Well, I guess an overwhelming desire to hold books, look at old books, and... And... Presumably, you could...
These are very valuable items, and I presume you could get a later edition, which would be... What is it to have the first edition?
Well, to have the first is to get a look at how this started.
And if you're looking at the history and development of any particular art, economic policy, information of any kind,
I think it's always important to have an idea how it started and how it developed, so that part of it is a desire to see how it began.
What do you hope to do with the library?
That's something we haven't really completely decided.
I don't know for sure.
You're enjoying it.
That's the important part.
Alan indicated that you've been involved in local book collecting groups and stuff like that, and you might be able to give us some sense of book collecting in Los Angeles.
Every big city that I know of has a group of people with the syllabus.
They look all over the city, and all classes and all styles.
Unfortunately, the field that I chose and was interested in happens to be one that was started long ago.
The first of the books, you know, what am I going to say?
Egyptian papyri, which I don't happen to have one, I've described.
I guess this is surgery for stone, bladder stone, 3,500 years ago.
Yeah, it's amazing.
Did they perform surgery for the virus?
Well, if you had a diagnosis and you didn't have any good x-rays, but if the patient passed red urine and had severe pain at a certain time, you would guess that that was it.
And if you got him drunk enough,
had some people hold them down and get the bladder open and get it out.
And some of them got recovered.
So you took your chances, I guess.
Well, yeah.
You didn't operate on the king until you'd done a lot.
But, you know, that's... There are quite a few
Philadelphia is quite a book collecting area.
Oh, yes.
I've spent a lot of time down there.
Well, you know the College of Physicians, of course.
Of course, yes.
And my professor would be, he broke land.
He had a great collection that we students would be invited to his own exams, you know what?
And, of course, the College of Physicians is all great.
Are you interested mostly in medicine?
No, I'm interested in books, and not just books, but manuscripts, anything.
I'm really interested in collecting, and the passion.
So you're collecting collectors and stuff?
Yeah, that's it.
You've got it, and it makes some sense out of the whole thing, and tells some interesting stories.
In your field, have you pretty much stayed close to that focus, or have you strayed?
Medicine, yes.
Gastroenterology, no.
I mean, strayed through the field of medicine.
Have you acquired pretty much out here, or have you traveled to hunt for the things?
Well, I have hunted for things, but I will say that once I got started,
sellers hunted for me, and it was very quick, very short time for me.
Harry Levinson was the one who sold me to Vesalius, and within a couple of months, one of Jake Zaper, who was the other bookseller, called me up, and he has a wonderful book.
So, you know, Jake is quite an institution out here.
Yes.
So he was second in line.
But then after that, they were all there.
And I gather, because it's such a specialized field, there aren't that many people who are collecting, or would you say that there are quite a few?
There are quite a few, I think.
You know, before I was collecting, I had, well, the first edition of
in my medical textbook.
Why, I don't know.
I never looked at it.
But I'd seen it in a second-hand store in Philadelphia, and it was $4.50 or something, so I bought it.
You know, and I think there are many, many documents in the government.
Do you enjoy the collection as much today as you did when you started it in 1960?
It's not the kind of thing you get bored of.
It's not the acquisition that gives you the satisfaction.
No, I enjoy looking through it, see what I have on this or that.
Do you learn anything from his old books?
Anything?
I don't think so.
Learn how things develop, and also see how time changes things, and how much of what we do now is very similar to what they did then.
realized that there was a dean at UCLA named Sherman Mellinkoff.
He is really, he started as a gastroenterologist, but he, next thing you know, became dean of medicine medical school.
Very thoughtful, very bright, very capable guy, and he
about a year ago published a paper in general, in the General Environmental Association, which I have to find because I've lost my copy of it, in which he pointed out that of the thousands of herbs and preparations that we know about, and the many hundreds that we have studied and used
Those in orange.
There's six left.
Yeah, just six.
The aspirin comes from the willow tree.
The flying one comes from some goddamn tree in South America.
Digitalis comes from the foxglove.
That's about a four or not.
That's right.
All the rest are chemicals that have been possibly present after some of these, but changed completely.
There was just a piece in the New York Times about some
There's a ewe, a tree that they harvest up in the Pacific Northwest, which apparently they're finding successful in the treatment of something.
Did you see that?
Some cancer, yeah.
Yeah.
And there was never any use for the tree.
Now all of a sudden— Oh, they used it for something, I can tell you.
All of these things were used for something.
Every grandmother had a collection.
Do you have an old grandmother?
Margaret chamomile tea.
Yes.
And the yucca plants you had?
Well, they all had a collection of dried things and what have you.
They used, when you had something, they rubbed it on your chest or gave it to you a drink or what have you.
Some of them made you feel good, especially if they put it in wine.
And, uh, this is, uh,
It's been every single culture.
That's another thing.
It's a general thing.
Let me show you some things.
Yeah, I'd love to sit down.
Let me show you that.
Oh, good, good, good.
This has nothing to do with medicine.
This is the Egyptian... Oh, that's the firing animal.
Go there.
Now, there's the procession.
They're pulling this wagon.
See the mommies and they're pulling through the street and he was a priest as part of the procession.
Is that part of the same?
Yeah.
And this was about 3,200 years ago.
You know, it's something, isn't it?
Crazy.
It's preserved pretty decently, isn't it?
And you said, well, I dug it out of the ground, you know, really.
He said you had a chileiform tablet, I guess.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
For instance, this is one that I bought a few years ago.
Oh, that's from China.
Yeah, that's one.
Well, you know them well.
These are not good news.
You see?
Well, if you look at it,
Does it look like maybe you're using legs?
It's a form of mandrake.
But it's sold as a drug.
Well, it's the best drug there is.
It kills any of you.
Look at that.
Yeah, look at that thing.
Well, they have all kinds of stores.
It's still very popular in China.
Oh, God, yeah.
Oh, it's in LA, too.
No, it's not true.
There's a...
This is a little frozen box.
And this is a geometron tablet.
And so happens I have a nephew, who is now a professor of such stuff at Harvard.
And among other things, he reads these.
Oh!
Did he give you, would he be able to play for it?
Yeah.
Oh, he did.
It's a list of animals that some storekeeper probably sold one day.
Seven chickens, one cow, two goats.
They kept all their records.
This is pre-paper.
Right.
But they didn't write on paper.
They didn't have paper.
Yeah, it's wonderful.
This is how old, do you figure?
Better than 3,000 years old.
Did they bake those, or did they... Oh, yeah, this is baked.
This was inscribed with a stylus, and then baked.
And then it... 3,000.
Is that from sewer?
Is it the same?
And as I say, there are people now who do this stuff.
And in Indonesia, this is a great play that resembles somebody's story.
If you ever got to Indonesia, you'd see this play acting again and again.
Oh, look at that.
This is palm leaf.
Palm?
Some kind of palm leaf.
How old is it?
A couple of hundred years.
About that.
Here's another one.
So that's the surface that they use in Indonesia?
Palm leaf, yeah.
Look at the delicacy.
You know, it's an Australian book, huh?
It is, isn't it?
Yeah, I mean, you're talking about Australian books.
That's right.
That's why.
Now, is this something you acquired here, or during your travels?
I think it was Malaysia, but it could have been.
And here, you're Jewish, I think.
We're Greek.
Greek.
Well, if you were Jewish, and you were sick, they would take a piece of parchment right here, some directions to make you better, and you'd put an enambulate, like this, around here.
How old is something like that?
That was private.
I think this is being done now.
Really?
Yeah.
Incidentally, I have one book in Greek and I can't find the damn thing.
I have completely forgotten my Greek.
I took Latin in high school.
Greek in high school.
Yeah.
In Philadelphia, they did those things.
It was wonderful.
So, what is it?
Oh, that's Johnson's Dictionary.
Oh.
It's a second edition.
Oh, that's nice.
We're walking down the street in Boston.
And my son said he saw this old book.
So he went back and looked at it.
Now, this is the second edition, same year as the first edition of the first great picture, really, of a product of one man.
Yeah.
And this week we used this for a— Did he really?
Oh, yeah.
Your son, was he a collector as well?
No.
Did he know you were interested in this thing?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And he pointed it out to you.
Dad, there's something.
Yeah.
Something I'd like.
How old was he?
Seven—oh, don't you?
Your son.
Oh, yes, I am.
He is now 48.
So he was a teenager or so when he found that or whenever?
No, he was a little older.
Well, incidentally, that's geek.
Oh, it is?
Sure.
You want to see some of those?
I'd love to.
Some of those?
Well, this is USA you still talked about.
Let me just put this out.
I got a really silly trip sauce.
It was owned by a English book collector to, you know, to put these fine bindings off and toss them away and put these on.
This is the first book of your collection, William Sterling Maxwell.
And this is the series.
And he starts here with a wood block, showing originally, why don't you look through it.
This is a guy who used to read.
Dissection or whatever.
That's not a living person.
Oh, no, no.
This person's dead.
That's the same.
It knows it's a woman, which is very unusual.
Why is it unusual?
Most women die at home.
Men might die in the street.
They get the body.
This, where the skeleton is, was the place the old reader used to read on the
Janitor used to do the dissecting, but he is doing the dissection.
It's a public dissection because in Padua, where he was professor of anatomy, and where he went because they had public dissections.
And if you were naughty and were tried and had stolen a piece of bread from somebody, you got 20 lashes.
But if you hit him at the same time,
Killed and dissected in public.
You were executed and dissected in public.
That's part of the punishment.
So here is this thing he's doing in the section.
Now that says, does that indicate that that's a caesarean?
That's cum caesare.
I wonder what that is.
On the top line there, the cum caesare.
That's right.
That's Basel, that must be where it was.
This was done in Padua, right near Venice, where he was professor.
After he had finished writing a book, getting all the plates, he took these wood blocks by wheel train up to Gossel, where they had the best publishers around, and had them published.
And this was done in public.
Did people enjoy the spectacle?
And here, these are barbers.
Originally, the barber would do this dissection.
They had their razors.
Here they're trying to sell their razors, because they ain't good for anything, because he doesn't for nothing.
Is this dissection, is he doing this to learn anything?
Sure.
But I'm just wondering why the public, why would he do it in public?
Because that was the body he got.
You were dissected in public.
That's part of your punishment.
So this woman must have done something dreadfully broad.
Yeah.
But let me show you these.
Oh, this is wonderful.
This was 1543, huh?
This is your first book.
This is quite a beginning to a question.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Incidentally, there's some letters.
Do you read the Latin?
A little better than my Greek.
How did I stand up today for accuracy?
Look at it.
This looks like I'm lying.
Yeah.
Really?
Because wasn't it forbidden in those days to do this, to do that?
Yes.
But that's how he did them, because he's invagual.
And he had a good artist draw them, and they worked together, obviously.
And that's magnificent.
You're not going to see a better skeleton, do you?
You're not going to see a better skeleton.
Well, really, it's extremely accurate.
That's very good.
Yeah.
He must have had to do a lot of dissections to get that done.
And kept careful records and checked them all the next time.
Yeah.
Well, here are all these muscle men, so called.
Is that pretty accurate by the muscles too?
Yeah.
It's also like an art, too.
It's a beauty of the human art.
Isn't that beautiful?
It is beautiful.
You can see that they're graceful there.
It's not just anatomy.
You can see more.
And they're all labeled with the group letter.
And of course, because it's a wood block, they had to do it in reverse.
So there's a technical... Well, that didn't matter.
You did it.
So the guys walk in the other direction.
Because the engraver would take care of that.
The engraver could take care of that.
These wood blocks were used in 1546.
1543, 42, 46 was the second edition.
And he was in—I would say this by that time was in the Army, taking care of Charles I, I think it was.
He was his physician.
He'd made it, you see.
It was quite a job.
And he finally, at the age of his 40s here, in his 60s, he had done something naughty and was sentenced to go the holy land to expiate his sins, which he did.
And on his way back home, the ship was called The Storm Road at the age of 64.
But this is where you look behind.
This is excellent, you know?
What did you feel the first time you saw this?
Exciting.
Well, these are things that we've seen.
Reproductions of this were forever.
So, the absolute beauty of this.
Well, what happened then was the second edition
New blocks disappeared in 1931, and somebody found the goddammit.
You're kidding.
They turned it up again.
After 400 years or so, close.
Yeah.
Oh, my goodness.
And here is the last edition of Lissanius.
That's what it's called, Lissanius, right?
Yeah.
The E-S-A-L-I-I on there.
Can I help you with that?
This was down in 1932.
Liza was done with the same blocks.
Same wood blocks.
Yeah.
After 400 years or close, they used the same blocks.
That's the first edition.
The second edition, this guy's got clothes on.
So this one's gone over again.
They made him put clothes on him.
Isn't that wonderful?
The reason, of course, as you say, this is a bull.
That must have been pretty exciting when the wood blocks turned up.
Oh, God.
I wonder where they had been.
Somebody knew, I don't know, so I forget.
Look at that, huh?
Doesn't that look the same?
Because it should.
It was the same goddamn woodcloth.
Well, this must have been done in a very early edition.
I mean, a very limited edition, I mean.
No, this was a pretty extensive edition.
Oh, yeah, this is modern paper, beautiful paper.
I'm sorry?
The wood blocks were destroyed then.
So the wood blocks were destroyed during the war.
They said a thousand copies were made of this.
So they were discovered to be preserved and saved and then they were destroyed in World War II.
Isn't that a commentary, huh?
Mm-hmm.
And it's an exciting thing to look through these videos.
We saw that one.
Yeah.
It looks familiar.
Is this still among your favorites?
Oh, yeah.
The first is the favorite, right?
The first acquisition is still the favorite.
Also, that has to be.
Now, would you also judge that as one of the high spots of your collection?
Oh, for sure.
Now, let me show you.
Is that right?
No, that's all right.
That's the end.
I told you it was a French, and that was too.
Couldn't publish for five years because he was being sued.
All right, yeah.
And this is his book.
His family were publishing things.
They were publishing?
Yeah, that's wonderful.
1546, yeah.
And I think it's a pen out of the way.
Yeah.
Look, it's a little Latin.
It's pretty thoroughly indexed for the period.
Oh, yes.
Look at that.
But look at the difference between that skeleton and what you just looked at.
Now, the bones are right.
It's not as complete.
He doesn't have any bones here.
No.
The toes look like toes.
Yeah.
They look like they've got flesh on them.
Does this look back like the other one?
That thing was a beautiful thing.
No, this is more.
Yeah.
The other one is great.
I can't believe how beautiful the paper is.
Well, yeah, this is good paper.
Well, that's rudimentary, isn't it?
Compared to the series.
And who is this again?
This is Estienne.
Estienne.
And it was a great, important publishing house.
And Charles Estienne was a great publisher.
Except the young soul was his partner on these.
The deepness.
Is it French?
Yeah.
I mean, I need this book.
Isn't it funny?
This book's very rudimentary.
Is it?
Yes.
This was done before Viserius, really.
Was Viserius the full-outrate book on anatomy then?
Yeah.
I mean, that's a fair statement.
So it's really the cornerstone of such a collection.
In anatomy, yes.
But, you know, they knew these parts.
They knew the bones because they got broken.
They knew the blood vessels where they were because they got a spiel wound and they bled.
But they wouldn't let them do deceptions, you know.
They got in trouble with the church, yeah.
My God, what is that?
That's to show you the brain.
The rest of it doesn't count.
It doesn't make sense either, does it?
It just looks like bloody parts.
The rest is merely the housing for the brain.
Here's the usuals.
Forget all this.
Now, how is he for accuracy?
Technically, not so much for the eyes.
He's got all the white parts, but they're not put together right.
You know, like that.
So, that's the end.
As I say, it would have been first if he had been able to do it.
And somewhere there I've got to...
Are those anatomical studies by da Vinci?
Oh, there's no.
Da Vinci, his years were... You don't have to take that down, sir.
I was probably writing in the Navajo book.
At least it makes sense to think so.
And these are the... These are facsimiles.
Well, the green ones are the originals, I'd like.
But these are from the collection.
And I can tell you, they look as good.
He would take a piece of paper and he'd start thinking about man.
Then he'd draw some part of the body.
So you'll see everything here.
Sort of vaguely.
And these are... Now this doesn't look so good, except this is a bear foot.
It is a bear foot.
Bears, not humans.
But you got in trouble for this too, didn't you, didn't you?
Well, I think you were in trouble all the time.
But some of these are really magnificent.
Did you say you saw the originals?
No.
But many of them were here.
These were in the L.A.
and show the Windsor Art collection.
Can you write backwards on these, or is it in the mirror?
No, this is... Well, he wrote, and nobody could ever figure this out, and somebody would tell them something in the mirror.
Yes, I love that.
He'd have gotten in trouble if they knew what he was writing for.
But he based his dance or something?
Yeah, he did his painting.
But obviously he was a genius and he was interested in anatomy.
I mean, you didn't need that stuff there for paintings and spatularies.
And sculpture.
Especially the intestines here?
Yeah.
It's a beautiful body.
It's pretty nice.
When was this produced, this facsimile addition?
Again, these were found not too long, though, and this was some time ago.
Well, you know, they were in Windsor, in the trunk.
In the trunk?
Yeah.
And the Queen didn't ever saw them until somebody went and opened the goddamn trunk.
You mean the existing Queen, the current Queen?
No.
This was Victoria, perhaps.
Oh, I think it was after Victoria.
They owned them, and they didn't know they owned them.
Yeah.
They had a guy go to Europe and buy all kinds of art.
School things, you know?
That's a pretty damn good skeleton.
Yes, well.
That's a pretty damn nice looking foot leg.
That's a nice foot, nice calf, nice shoe.
Well, here's a design for a house.
I don't know what Matthew was doing.
I'm amazed these things survived.
This is the kind of thing that usually never made it through time.
But look at them.
These things never made it.
I mean, notes and, I mean, like Shakespeare.
There's nothing from Shakespeare that's, you know.
But these were not important.
Well, I'm amazed that they did survive, though.
Look at that.
That's a pretty darn good figure.
Well, these are Linda's collection that the Queen has now, and she has had them travel around, and as I said, they were here, and they'll go back to the country.
Is there anything that you'd like to have that you've been unable to get?
Can you think of anything specific?
Well, you know, there's always something.
But let me show you some of the earliest things.
I don't know how much fun you have.
You know, my wife's a librarian.
She, after our kids, we all came along.
and everything was fine.
She went to library school, and she's now a librarian at Southern California Psycho Home of New York City.
So you share the passion?
Does she share your passion?
Not special.
I mean, she's interested.
She buys lots of books, but that's the one she's reading.
She hasn't buy them an artifact, no, this day, no.
But, well, here, let me show you the most important book in my book, The Beginning of Modern Medicine.
The circulation was a real mystery.
Blood came from the legs, went up to the liver,
and then from the liver it went to a heart, and then went through.
Where it got to a run, I'm not sure.
William Harvey, 1621.
I think that this is the only one in private head ends this time.
Now we're getting to the really extraordinary stuff.
This is his... Oh, I like this now.
The Emoto Cordes was published in 1628.
He has illustrations.
Now, see, what he did was this.
If you put a turn of it here, if you don't put it very tight, then the blood goes down and comes back in the veins.
And it stops at these places.
And if you do it and you go like this, you push it out.
And eventually you now fill, but they stop.
So these are valves in the veins that let the blood go only this way.
So the blood normally has to flow this way to the heart, from the eye.
Did Harvey understand this?
Yeah.
Is he the first to understand this?
No.
Cesar Pino was the first, but he didn't really know exactly what it meant.
Harvey did a lot of things.
He cut a chick and the egg, and about the seventh day or whatever, I forget, he'd open the egg and look.
I've done this with my daughter, and you see the office.
Blood going in this way and going out that way and going one direction.
You can't mistake it.
And he looked fish.
And he did tied ligatures around different parts.
And if he tied them to vessels that go to the heart, this all flooded.
That became empty.
The valves of the heart let the blood go in one direction.
He took the heart out of the dog and saw it.
You know, it would go only one way.
so that any child ligatures and did all kinds of experiments, it's an occupational.
And no one had done that.
This is a seminal book, the Master of Medicine.
This, as I say, this is the first book in modern medicine.
This is the beginning of medicine, as we know.
And yet the Vasari is your favorite, though.
That's the beginning of...
That's the only one in private hands.
So far as I know that.
Did you get that through a bookseller or at auction?
Jake Zeglin.
Jake saw it at the auction and he bought it.
He didn't know it was coming up and he called me from wherever the auction was.
Really?
And said, are you interested?
In general terms, did you give him a limit or did you just say get it?
I didn't buy it.
He bought it.
He had already acquired it.
I see.
Let's look at earlier medicine.
It's a better collection.
I'm doing some things with it because the
UCLA is going to have a year's program when the year Columbus discovered it in America.
And this is what medicine is like in 1492.
This herbal was made something around 1492.
What's an herbal?
Yeah.
Is it Spanish?
This is Latin.
This is old Italian.
And here... Can I look at that thing?
Well, yeah.
It's hard to look like that.
Because you're drawing through something potent.
Once you got that old boy, could you cure him?
Do you think this was for the use of apothecaries or a pharmacist?
So this was... What the hell do you mean the office?
Because he had the old baby, he had all the jars.
So this was like a recipe book or whatever.
Well, here, let me read some of these.
This girl who's at the Gettys.
She works at the Gettys.
She is a translator.
She's a wife.
To heal any old wound, take the leaves and the root of this herb and make a powder of them and place it in the wound.
It will quickly cause it to purge and to heal.
Similarly, a woman with an illness of the wound should eat and drink of this herb for a period of 30 days and she will be cured.
Similarly, for a person who has been bitten by a snake or other venomous animal, take this herb and crush it and place it in the wound and it will soon heal.
And so on.
What was the herb?
That sounds like a tree.
Well, let's see.
Which is this?
What about?
This is one.
This is the first in the book.
Yeah, the real miracle drug.
Yeah, there.
I don't know what it is.
You can make something out of it.
I'd like to have some of that.
Yeah, wouldn't that be mine?
Take care of everything.
And this side is also... Look at the face.
That's wonderful.
And here is, page 19, the most potent of the lot.
Look at the dog.
I wonder why... The Moondrake is a powerful drug.
And if you were to dig it up, pull it out.
Julie?
So they dig it out, clean it, tie it to a dog.
The dog would pull it out.
You haven't?
You haven't.
The main thing.
There he is.
That's it.
You know, look at it.
It's all different.
The Chinese are using the...
So, these are magical, great, I don't know, I never saw faces like that.
I never saw loops like that either.
But this was in use until recent times, apparently, in the story that the bookseller had, which I don't know how true it is, was that the doctor who used this, telling her who was
35, 35, and when he died, his son was interested in medicine.
The son was interested in medicine.
After many generations.
After many generations of these things.
So this is... I've got an earlier award.
This is quite a collection.
Now, Grey's Anatomy, you've heard about.
Cezalfini is a guy who got the idea of circulation of blood.
C-A-E-S-A-L-P-I-N-I-S-A-L-P-I-N-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-S-A-L-P-I-
Do you believe, personally, there's a validity to these things?
What, modern African validity?
Well, can I tell you something?
No.
No?
By accident, they married a different one.
But they didn't know what it was before.
And again, if you remember that you almost always be covered when you get sick.
And you take some of these things.
Almost always.
Well, that's interesting.
I've lost patience, too.
This is a little earlier.
Wow.
This is about 1350 or so.
1350.
Yeah.
So we're talking, wow.
Well, 1550.
1450.
Now, you can't really recognize it.
The name maybe would help you.
What's the origin, Doctor?
Where is this from?
This is Italy.
This is in Latin.
They didn't use Italian.
By that time, they weren't probably using Italian.
Something like that has to be exceedingly scarce.
Where do you come up with the 14th century herbal, you know?
Well, I'll tell you.
You'd be amazed how they know about me.
Oh, I'm sure they'll have.
Well, let me show you a couple other things.
This is the works of Arnaud, the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building of the building.
who used this for his textbook.
Magnificent.
And this was, of course, a manuscript written by hand with notes.
Printing wasn't known then.
On vellum.
And a friend of mine, who was a medieval scholar, got a hold of this and looked through it.
What's that, he said.
Somebody had written something there and erased it.
Okay.
So he took it, ultraviolet, oh, this is this one, this one.
So he took it, well, ultraviolet liked it, all kinds of different likes.
You couldn't pick it up at all?
Well, John Benton taught medieval history of Caltech.
When he died, they abolished his apartment.
Oh, my goodness.
So he is important to us because of his other interests.
Yes.
Anyway, here are different pictures of that.
The ultraviolet light is what I needed.
Finally, they pulled it out there, didn't they, huh?
Well, it came up some with ultraviolet.
There's one I want to show you.
Well, here it is.
What they did here was the people at Caltech got one of these lousy pictures, and using their image intensifier, which they used to read the Dead Sea Scrolls and all kinds of things which you can't see, they did that.
And this was a student of Browns who studied from this book and owned it.
And he put it up.
He didn't want anybody to know that he had done that, so he wasted it.
Yes, but it was all this important information, really.
But now they're using this computer thing.
How old was that?
Well, it was after 1320.
I don't know what year.
This is a manuscript that made 1,300.
Wow.
It's a very important collection.
I don't want to take up too much more of your time.
I think we'd like to ask you a couple of fast questions, because I know you've had a busy day, and you certainly don't want to overstay a welcome.
But I've noticed that so many physicians are book collectors.
Can you have any explanation of what I feel for that?
I think so.
Uh, hang on.
Any self-respectful lady.
Well, this is 1210.
1210?
Yeah, about.
We carried this around with her because this tells her all the things the players to say, depending on the year, so she plays properly.
And all kinds of things to do.
Somebody's sick.
Is that a book of ours?
Oh, look at that.